# CMSC_341_Min_Max_Heaps
This project implements the data structures of Min and Max Heaps to make sorting and accessing high priority data efficient. Using these structures, we can guess the most commonly used pins/passwords based on an input file in order to get the most likely candidate as soon as possible by using a max heap.

# Background:
Pin numbers, much like every other human generated value, are not in the least bit random.Typically speaking, it is much easier to “hack” a person than it is to hack a system or its hardware. In cyber security, this is referred to as targeting the “wetware” as opposed to targeting the software or hardware. Rather than guessing or brute forcing through pins randomly, we can seed our algorithm with popular pins. In 2013, a blogger posted an analysis of credit card pins showing that approximately 50% of user pins are covered within 400 unique numbers (4% of available pins). Conversely, the last 10% of passwords are spread amongst 4,000 unique numbers. This would imply that you could easily guess more than half user pins with 96% less effort than a standard brute force attack. As it turns out, this problem isn’t just limited to pins, but to all facets of cyber security and human (patterns of) life. Given any large dataset of ‘human generated’ data, you should expect to be able to pick apart habits and casual relationships. For this project, you will design min and max heaps that will make sorting and accessing high priority data efficient. In our case, we want to try to guess the most commonly used pins/passwords in order to get the most likely candidate as soon as possible by using a max heap. Statistically speaking, the most common pins will be the most likely to be encountered, and should show during your calls to ‘hack’. Conversely, you will also try your hand using the least popular pins by implementing a min heap and trying them in order. For reference, in this assignment, there is a ~10% chance of randomly succeeding with a marble bag full of all pins, removing them without replacement.

# Goal
Assuming that Instructor Almes is a real human being, and behaves and acts normally (see: Normality), determine how many of his fictitious pin numbers you can hack before his bank blocks you! His fictional bank with fictional cards and “normal pins” will allow you to incorrectly attempt to access his card 3 times per hour. You have from the start of the assignment to the end to hack as many accounts as possible (14 days * 24 hr/day * 3 attempts/hr = 1008 attempts per card). You will accomplish this by implementing min and max heaps. You will store pins that you have read from a file into a vector, and increment a hit counter associated to each pin. This vector will then generate the min/max heap. The provided hack method will then generate ‘normal’ pins, test them against a faux bank using your generated heaps and attempt to compromise as many pins as possible before returning a total count of successful hacks. The count is for your prosperity and will only be used for bragging rights. Since your max heap will be prioritizing the most commonly used pins, you should expect better odds than brute force (1:10). Implementation of a min a heap is required in order to a) demonstrate your understanding of heaps and b) show that ‘secure pins’ are not inherently secure, but more simply, used less in a normal population. There is nothing inherently secure about a number like 8068 other than the fact that a large majority of people do not use that pin. If you knew someone read this blog, and is a securiphile, you may be inclined to start from the bottom of the list during your brute force attack against them.
